# Pymaceuticals_module_5
Challenge Analysis:
Introduction:
The current challenge is related to Matplotlib. We are expected to utilize our data manipulation skills and apply whatever we have learned with regard to Matplotlib.The scenario is that I have joined Pymaceuticals,a new pharmaceutical company that specializes in anti-cancer medications.I, as a senior data analyst have been provided with complete data from the company's most recent animal study.This study basically aimed at comparing the performance of Pymaceuticals’ drug of interest, Capomulin,against other treatment regimens.The company has asked me to come up with all the figures and tables that could help with the technical report of the study and also formulate a nice summary of the study results.

Data Description:
With regard to the dataset ,we have been provided the mouse_metadata and study_results.The mouse_metadata majorly contains details regarding the mice whereas study_results have more to do with the findings of the study.We then created a new dataframe by merging mouse_metadata and study_results so we could combine both the datasets together and use them further in our analysis.

Methodology:
Here, in this challenge, I have made use python libraries including matplotlib, pandas, numpy and scipy.I have used various functions from time to time in the analysis for generating the required figures and tables.I have initially used pd.merge to merge the two dataframes.I have also used the nunique function to find the number of mice.I have also made use of the groupby function. Also I have used plt. functions to create different plots(box, scatter etc.).Lastly I have used scipy pearson correlation and linregress functions to find out the corelation between mouse weight and average tumor volume and create linear regression model respectively.

Key Observations:
There was one duplicate mouse id in the dataset provided to us The mean tumor volume for Capomulin and Ramicane is quite close to each other Both Capomulin and Ramicane have the lowest sem (standard error on mean) (0.32) Capomulin has the highest total number of mouse IDs/timepoints whereas the drug Propriva has the lowest As per the pie chart generated 51% of the mice are male whereas the rest 49% are female The drug "Capomulin", "Ramicane" and "Ceftamin" have no outliers that means no values are lying above or below the upper and lower boundary respectively however Infubinol has potential outliers ( 31 36.321346) hence we need to get rid of these outliers to make our study more meaningful. The line graph for capomulin treatment of mouse id l509 against timor volume is more of or a series of up and down slopes or oscillations. These oscillations might reflect fluctuations in mouse responses during different stages of the treatment, including treatment initiation, adaptation, and follow-up. The correlation between mouse weight and tumor volume is 0.84 which is close to 1 hence we may deduce that as the mouse's weight increases the total volume for the mouse might also increase.
